# 🛡️ Day 82 — OWASP Top 10 - 2021, Offensive Security Tooling, Web Hacking
------
<small>📅 _August 15, 2025_ </small>

------

## 💬 My Diary and Thoughts
<small>
It's been a while since I wrote down here, but I didn't stopped a single day in my journey. Covered a lot of topics in this time so I'll write only the most notable for me.
Starting from OWASP Top 10, I had a good time (and a long time) exploring this topic and doing hands-on challenges for EVERY single vulnerability of this Top 10. 
  
1. Broken Access Control - IDOR Challenge
Where I had to login into a bank account and change the exposed url reference to access another account.
  
2. Cryptographic Failures
Combining the Broken Access Control, I had to crack some password's hashes at rest to get admin credentials.

3. Injection
Did code injection in a vulnerable Web App that has passthru("perl /usr/bin/cowsay -f $cow $mooing");. 
The passthru function simply executes a command in the operating system's console and sends the output back to the user's browser.

4. Insecure Design
Just a "Password Recovery peronal question" where the application asks for the user favorite colour (Remembered me of Orkut and its absolutely insecure design of password recovery).

5. Security Misconfiguration
Exploring a debbuging interface (specifically a Werkzeug console) widely open in a web site, just had to found it and explore! An real-world example of when Patreon got hacked with this exact debug console,
link [here](https://labs.detectify.com/writeups/how-patreon-got-hacked-publicly-exposed-werkzeug-debugger)

6. Vulnerable and Outdated Components
Just scan an system and search of any CVEs of this system.

7. Identification and Authentication Failures
In this task I had to create an user that has the same username of an already existing one, so I just make this putting an blank space " " before the real username like " luiz" and gained access to the account
named "luiz", the original one.

8. Software and Data Integrity Failures
No checking if the API is serving the data that the user or server is really asking for, no Hashing checking or authentication.

9. Security Logging and Monitoring Failures
Had to read logs and find where the brute force was.

10. Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF)
Hottest one! So fun! The application exposes the server parameter to the users, so the attacker can forge an request on their behalf to arbitrary destinations while having control of 
the contents of the request itself.

--------------------

I also went through Hydra, Gobuster, SQLMap, Metasploit, Burp Suite and JavaScript essentials, but, to be honest, I'm not documenting it all, see you in the next journal! I Hope I got my SAL1 soon!


</small>

------
## 🧠 What I Learned
+ OWASP Top 10 - 2021 Vulnerabilities and exploiting them.
+ Offensive Security Tooling
+ JavaScript

## 🔄 Upcoming Plans
+ Defensive Security
+ SOC Fundamentals
+ Digital Forensics Fundamentals
+ Incident Response Fundamentals
+ Log Fundamentals
